[MUSIC]
>> Douglas Crockford: So let's compare
this to the pseudoclassical model.
So you remember this.
It's just awful with all
this stuff hanging around.
So this is the same thing now
in this functional model.
And the code gets a lot cleaner.
For one thing, we don't have
the .prototype stuff hanging off the end.
Everything is nice and neat and
contained within here.
So the gizmo constructor very simple,
it's simply returning a new object.
Notice the curly braces are on the right.
So this is gonna work perfectly.
Instead of saying this.id equals id,
we simply say id:id and we're done.
Then our who's it is going
to make a new gizmo.
And we're then going to add to
that function our test method or
add to that object our test method.
Return the object and it's done.
So the code got a lot simpler as well.
Yeah?
>> Speaker 2: I think about ten minutes
ago, you were saying not to use this, or
that you didn't recommend it or
even like it.
>> Douglas Crockford: Yeah,
that's the next step.
>> Speaker 2: Okay.
>> Douglas Crockford: So
let's suppose we want to have privacy,
which is something that I think is very
important to have in object systems.
So that we may have a goal where
the only way to get access
to the ID is through
the methods of the object
that we don't want anybody to be able to
access ID except through the methods.
JavaScript doesn't provide any way of
having privacy in the classical model,
in the pseudo-classical model,
because everything you attach to an object
is visible to anybody who
gets access to the object.
So there's no privacy there.
But the functional model, because we
have functions scope in closure, we do.
So let's say we want to hide the IDs.
You can only get ID through
the two string test methods.
The code actually gets simpler.
So instead of saying this.id
here we simply say id,
and we're getting it from, we're closing
over the variable that got passed in.
So it's private, it's completely private.
And this code got simpler too.
We got this ID, and which again,
we're getting through closure and
the code got smaller and simpler.
Yeah.
>> Speaker 3: Aren't the functions copied,
though, then for each instance?
>> Douglas Crockford: Right, so
there is a cost to this model.
That in the prototypal
model we're saving memory,
because we only have one of
each method per instance.
In this one we're going to have lots
more function objects being created.
And we'll talk more about this on Friday,
but it turns out that
that's significant only if you've
got millions of instances.
That memory has become so expansive,
you've got gigabytes
of RAM in your pocket.
Making important architectural
decisions based on memory conservation
is not a good way to go now.
And I would contend that if you
are worried about millions of instances,
maybe this is not the language
you should be using.
But for most of what we do,
the number of objects that you're gonna
make is gonna be relatively small.
And performance-wise,
this is gonna be great.
So we're gonna spend a little
bit more in construction, but
we're gonna spend a lot less in execution.
So I think it's a win.
>> Speaker 2: That fact that you create
an instance of that function for
each instance of the object,
that's because of closure, right?
If we can't have closure without that.
>> Douglas Crockford: That's right.
>> Speaker 2: Okay.
>> Douglas Crockford: Yeah, because of
closure, we're willing to pay that cost.
>> Speaker 2: Right.
>> Douglas Crockford: And
it's not much of a cost.
If you look at what is
in a function object,
there is basically an object
with two extra pointers in it.
One for the pointer to the code, and
one the pointer to the activation
of the creating function.
There's not much else in there.
There will be a link to
the prototype object,
which is a waste because
we're not going to use that.
That's it.
So,
there's not much memory in those things,
not a lot of work to initialize them.
So it's very lightweight.
>> Douglas Crockford: Anybody else?
>> Douglas Crockford: So this also
solves another problem that we have in
the language which is
related to this binding.
So this is the old hoozit,
the original pseudo-classical hoozit.
Suppose we want to take the test
function out of the object.
Which we can do because you can copy any
object reference out of an object and
put it in a separate variable, and
then call that variable as a function.
That call will fail because when
we call test as a function,
this will be bound not to
the object that it came from but
to something else,
either to the global object or undefined.
Either of which will
cause this test to fail.
But in the new form because our methods
do not have this in them, we can
take those functions, pull them out of the
object, and call them independently, and
they still work exactly the same way
because they don't depend on this.
So no matter how those methods are called,
they will always work correctly.
All the fragileness of this
is completely avoided.
>> Speaker 4: Just so I'm clear on this,
in the middle one there, in your function
where you're taking the Test ID,
you have access to ID because
it was pushed onto the heap,
and it hasn't been garbage collected yet
because it's rooted somewhere.
>> Douglas Crockford: Right.
>> Speaker 4: Okay.
>> Douglas Crockford: Yeah, in fact,
it's being rooted by that object.
>> Speaker 4: Yeah.
>> Douglas Crockford: Or by that method.
As long as that method survives,
the context it needs will also survive.
>> Speaker 4: Okay.